This week, I'll show you how to
train the Naive
Bayes classifier.
In this context, we
train in something
different than in logistic
regression or deep learning.
There is no gradient descent.
We're just counting frequencies
of words in the corpus.
You will now be
creating step-by-step,
a Naive Bayes model for
sentiment analysis using
a corpus of tweets that you've
already collected.
That's awesome.
The first step for
any supervised machine
learning project
is to gather the data to
train and test your model.
For sentiment
analysis of tweets,
this step involves
getting a corpus of
tweets and dividing
it into two groups;
positive and negative tweets.
The next step is fundamental
to your model success.
The preprocessing step,
as described in the
previous module,
consists of five smaller steps.
One, lowercase the texts, 2,
remove punctuation, URLs,
and handles, 3,
remove stop words,
4, stemming or reducing
words to their common stem,
and 5, finally,
tokenizing or splitting
your document
into single words or tokens.
For the assignments
in this week,
it will be relatively
straightforward
to implement this
processing pipeline.
In the real-world, you might
find the gathering
and processing
of texts takes up a big chunk
of your project's hours.
Once you have a clean
corpus of processed tweets,
you will start by computing
the vocabulary for
each word in class,
like you did in
the previous week.
This process will produce
a table like the one shown here.
You can compute the
sum of words and
class in each corpus
in the same step.
From this table of frequencies,
you get the conditional
probability or probability of
word given class by
using the Laplacian
smoothing formula.
See how the number
of unique words in
V class is equal to 6.
You only account for
the words in the table,
not the total number of words
in the original corpus.
This produces a table of
conditional probabilities for
each word and each class.
This table only contains
values greater than 0.
For the forth step, you'll
get the Lambda score
for each word,
which is the log of the ratio
of your conditional
probabilities.
The fifth step is the
estimation of the log prior.
To do this, you'll need to count
the number of positive
and negative tweets.
Then the log prior is the log
of the ratio of the number
of positive tweets over the
number of negative tweets.
In the upcoming assignments,
you'll be working with
a balanced datasets.
The log prior is equal to 0.
For unbalanced datasets, this
term will become important.
In summary, training
a Naive Bayes model
can be divided into
six logical steps.
You get to annotate
a dataset with positive
and negative tweets.
Typically, it's better
if your tweets match
the same context that you want
to use in the final model.
Then you process the
raw texts to get
a corpus of clean
standardized tokens.
You compute the
dictionary frequencies
for each word in class,
then compute the
conditional probabilities
of each word using the
Laplacian smoothing formula,
you compute the lambda factor
for each word, and finally,
you estimate the log
prior of the model or
how likely it is to see
a positive tweet
in your accounts.
That was quite a lot.
Now, you have seen how to build
a probability table needed
to apply Naive Bayes.
The next exciting thing we'll
do is to classify
your sentences.